.Dd April 24, 2026
.Dt PEAKURL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm peakurl
.Nd manage PeakURL short links and site operations from the terminal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h | Fl -help
.Op Fl V | Fl -version
.Ar command
.Op Ar options
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm login
.Fl -base-url
.Ar url
.Fl -api-key
.Ar token
.Op Fl -json
.Op Fl -quiet
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm create
.Ar url
.Op Fl -alias Ar alias
.Op Fl -title Ar title
.Op Fl -json
.Op Fl -quiet
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm list
.Op Fl -page Ar number
.Op Fl -limit Ar number
.Op Fl -search Ar query
.Op Fl -json
.Op Fl -quiet
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm core download
.Op Fl -force
.Op Fl -json
.Op Fl -quiet
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the official command-line interface for PeakURL.
It wraps the PeakURL HTTP API for creating, listing, importing, exporting,
and deleting short links.
It also supports authenticated account inspection, site system status,
outbound webhooks, CLI update checks, and public PeakURL core package
downloads.
.Pp
Human-readable tables are printed by default.
Commands that are useful in automation provide
.Fl -json
for machine-readable output and
.Fl -quiet
for compact script output.
.Sh INSTALLATION
.Nm
is distributed as the
.Sy peakurl
npm package.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
npm i -g peakurl
.Ed
.Pp
After installation, the executable is named
.Nm .
Package managers that install npm manual entries can expose this page through:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
man peakurl
.Ed
.Sh AUTHENTICATION
Most commands require a PeakURL API key.
Save credentials locally with:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl login --base-url https://example.com/api/v1 --api-key YOUR_API_KEY
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Fl -base-url
value must be the explicit PeakURL API base URL and should normally end in
.Pa /api/v1 .
.Nm
verifies credentials with
.Sy GET /users/me
before saving them.
.Pp
For non-interactive shells and CI jobs, credentials may also be provided
through environment variables:
.Bl -tag -width "PEAKURL_BASE_URL"
.It Ev PEAKURL_BASE_URL
Explicit API base URL, for example
.Pa https://example.com/api/v1 .
.It Ev PEAKURL_API_KEY
Bearer API key.
.El
.Pp
Environment credentials override saved credentials for the current process.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width "webhook create"
.It Cm login
Validate and save PeakURL credentials.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl login --base-url https://example.com/api/v1 --api-key YOUR_API_KEY
.Ed
.It Cm whoami
Show the current authenticated account.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl whoami
.Ed
.It Cm logout
Remove saved local credentials.
Environment variables, if set, still apply to the current shell.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl logout
.Ed
.It Cm status
Show the current PeakURL system status snapshot.
This route typically requires admin access on the PeakURL install.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl status
peakurl status --json
.Ed
.It Cm core download
Download the latest public PeakURL core package from
.Pa https://peakurl.org/latest.zip ,
verify the published SHA-256 checksum from the update API, and extract it
into the current directory.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl core download
peakurl core download --force
.Ed
.It Cm create Ar url
Create a short link for a destination URL.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl create https://example.com/docs --alias docs
peakurl create https://example.com/launch --title "Launch Page"
.Ed
.It Cm import Ar file
Import short links from a local CSV, JSON, or XML file.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl import ./links.csv
peakurl import ./links.xml --json
.Ed
.It Cm export
Export accessible links as CSV, JSON, or XML.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl export --format csv
peakurl export --format json --stdout
peakurl export --format xml --output ./backups/links.xml
.Ed
.It Cm list
List short links.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl list
peakurl list --limit 25 --page 1
peakurl list --search launch --json
.Ed
.It Cm get Ar id-or-alias
Fetch one short link by ID, alias, or short code.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl get docs
peakurl get url_123 --json
.Ed
.It Cm delete Ar id-or-alias
Delete one short link by ID, alias, or short code.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl delete docs
peakurl delete url_123 --quiet
.Ed
.It Cm webhook list
List outbound webhook registrations.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl webhook list
peakurl webhook list --json
.Ed
.It Cm webhook create Ar url
Create an outbound webhook registration.
At least one
.Fl -event
flag is required.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl webhook create https://example.com/api/webhooks/peakurl --event link.clicked
peakurl webhook create https://example.com/api/webhooks/peakurl --event link.clicked --event link.created
.Ed
.It Cm webhook delete Ar id
Delete one outbound webhook by ID.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl webhook delete webhook_123
.Ed
.It Cm webhook events
List supported webhook event identifiers.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl webhook events
.Ed
.It Cm update
Check for a newer CLI version and print the npm install command when an
update is available.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl update
peakurl update --check
peakurl update --json
.Ed
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss Global Options
.Bl -tag -width "-V, --version"
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show help.
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Show the installed CLI version.
.El
.Ss Common Output Options
.Bl -tag -width "--quiet"
.It Fl -json
Print machine-readable JSON where supported.
.It Fl -quiet
Print minimal output for scripts or suppress success output for destructive
commands.
.El
.Ss Link Creation Options
.Bl -tag -width "--utm-campaign"
.It Fl -alias Ar alias
Custom alias for the short link.
.It Fl -title Ar title
Title stored with the short link.
.It Fl -password Ar password
Password-protect the short link.
.It Fl -status Ar status
Link status, for example
.Sy active
or
.Sy paused .
.It Fl -expires-at Ar iso
Expiration timestamp in ISO-8601 format.
.It Fl -utm-source Ar value
UTM source value.
.It Fl -utm-medium Ar value
UTM medium value.
.It Fl -utm-campaign Ar value
UTM campaign value.
.It Fl -utm-term Ar value
UTM term value.
.It Fl -utm-content Ar value
UTM content value.
.El
.Ss List Options
.Bl -tag -width "--sort-order"
.It Fl -page Ar number
Page number.
.It Fl -limit Ar number
Page size.
.It Fl -search Ar query
Search term.
.It Fl -sort-by Ar field
Sort field.
.It Fl -sort-order Ar order
Sort order, for example
.Sy asc
or
.Sy desc .
.El
.Ss Import And Export Options
.Bl -tag -width "--format"
.It Fl -format Ar format
File format:
.Sy csv ,
.Sy json ,
or
.Sy xml .
.It Fl -output Ar path
Write exported content to a specific file.
.It Fl -stdout
Write raw exported content to standard output.
.El
.Ss Core Download Options
.Bl -tag -width "--force"
.It Fl -force
Overwrite existing files when extracting the PeakURL core package.
.El
.Ss Webhook Options
.Bl -tag -width "--event"
.It Fl -event Ar event
Webhook event identifier.
May be passed more than once.
Run
.Nm
.Cm webhook events
to list supported values.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "PEAKURL_DISABLE_UPDATE_CHECK"
.It Ev PEAKURL_BASE_URL
Explicit PeakURL API base URL.
.It Ev PEAKURL_API_KEY
Bearer API key.
.It Ev PEAKURL_DISABLE_UPDATE_CHECK
Disable automatic CLI update notices when set.
.It Ev PEAKURL_FORCE_UPDATE_NOTICE
Force an update notice check.
This is primarily useful for testing.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "Windows"
.It macOS
.Pa ~/Library/Preferences/peakurl/config.json
.It Linux and other Unix systems
.Pa ~/.config/peakurl/config.json
.It Windows
.Pa %APPDATA%\epeakurl\eConfig\econfig.json
.El
.Pp
The exact location follows the standard per-user paths resolved by the
operating system.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width "2"
.It 0
Command completed successfully.
.It 1
Command failed because of validation, network, API, file-system, or package
verification errors.
.It 2
Authentication is missing or rejected.
.El
.Sh SECURITY
.Nm
does not print API keys, bearer tokens, or raw authorization headers.
Base URLs and destination URLs reject embedded credentials.
Core package downloads are verified with the published SHA-256 checksum before
extraction.
The ZIP extractor rejects unsafe paths, duplicate entries, symbolic links,
encrypted entries, and unsupported compression methods.
.Pp
Use
.Nm
.Cm logout
to remove saved credentials from the local config store.
Unset
.Ev PEAKURL_BASE_URL
and
.Ev PEAKURL_API_KEY
when environment credentials should no longer apply.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
peakurl login --base-url https://example.com/api/v1 --api-key YOUR_API_KEY
peakurl create https://example.com/docs --alias docs
peakurl list --limit 10
peakurl get docs
peakurl export --format json --stdout
peakurl webhook create https://example.com/api/webhooks/peakurl --event link.clicked
peakurl core download
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Lk https://peakurl.org/docs/cli "PeakURL CLI documentation"
.Pp
.Lk https://peakurl.org/docs/api "PeakURL API documentation"
.Pp
.Lk https://www.npmjs.com/package/peakurl "peakurl npm package"
.Sh BUGS
Report issues at
.Lk https://github.com/PeakURL/CLI/issues .
